AI usage
Eliab Getachew
egetach1@terpmail.umd.edu
section 0203

I used created a journal text file in github now this week we are 
using ai to explain python and even use ai to help us correct our code
and also use ai to give us ideas for different ways of writing our code.

This week I got a deep understanding of how to use many tools such as 
len and range in python through the weekly assignment and I was also
able to get a lot of practice with working on different kinds of loops.
this week was very productive and I finished a lot of my assignments early
and I was able to use co pilot to help me with anything I didnt understand 
in the class.


there were many things i struggled with at first when I started like
making a basic menu loop using (while + if/elif/else, no functions) but
I had enoph resources online to help me undertand what information I was
lacking in order to solve the problems.


This week we workened on defining classes to do a task and it was fun and 
interesting to see what kinds of codes we can make to do many different things.
after the weekly practice i felt like I could make anything on pythong and
saw all the creative freedome it gives me, I loved being able to do everything I 
wanted and that was asked of me on my own without any help because after a while
I started to see the patterns and I was able to code without stopping every 5 miniutes.


This week we worked on defining more classes and initializing attributes which really 
helped me learn how we can use calsses in different ways and initializing attribuites.
I alos learned how putting peramiters in for objects in the class. I also want to learn more on inharitance because It pair up hand to hand with classes and initializing.


This week I was strugleing with a lot of my code on the week 5 exersise so I used claud to help me understand what I was doing wrong. Also was very busy with the project even when I am writing this we are still working on it. but other than that It has been fine its just a lot of course work due this week.


In week 6 I had a lot of problems foing the week 6 exercise which I found to be really
hard so I was asking gemini for help whenever I got stuck. working with class methods 
was had for me at first but I think I am getting better but the class is starting to
move very fast now!


Week 7, I constructed basic custom exception classes, learned how to raise my own 
exceptions, worked through exception handling using try/except/else/finally, and began 
using unittest to write rudimentary unit tests.  I initially had trouble remembering 
when to use else or finally, and it felt a little strange to create my own exceptions.


Week 8, I concentrated on learning how classes may inherit from one another and how
different sorts of objects can do different tasks using the same method name during
Week 8. I made a parent class named Item and child classes that duplicate its code,
such as Book, Magazine, and DVD. In order to allow the child classes to call the
parent's code, I used super(). Additionally, I made the child classes override methods
like check_out() so that the behavior is appropriate for each type of item. 

Week 9, I learned about abstract base classes (ABCs) using @abstractmethod and abc.ABC
in Week 9.  I created an abstract class named LibraryItemABC that has a property 
called item_type and a method called check_out().  Next, I developed subclasses that
inherited from LibraryItemABC, such as BookItem, MagazineItem, and DVDItem, each of
which defined item_type and implemented check_out().  In order for a class to fit into
the hierarchy without direct inheritance, I also experimented with virtual subclass
registration.

week 10, I worked with Python's class and data-model tools in Week 10. I added special
methods like __str__, __len__, __iter__, and __contains__, converted classes to 
@dataclass with built-in comparison and ordering, and used @property for controlled
attributes.  In the end, I created items that serve as lightweight containers, 
validate their data, and are simple to compare and print.

week 12 I didnt really use much AI at all because we didnt have any assignemnt due this week but I started looking ar the final projects and asked chat gpt to give me a summery of what we had to do to succed and It gave me some really good insight on what i have to do.
